as most know photosynthesis is the
conversion of carbon dioxide and water
into sugar utilizing the energy of the
Sun however photosynthesis is actually
composed of two separate processes known
as light reactions and the calvin cycle
the two are complements together they
allow plans to create the sugar
molecules they need to survive light
reactions as implied by their name
require energy from light in order to
function they convert solar energy into
chemical energy through complex is known
as photosystems light reactions take
place in the chloroplast thylakoids in
light reactions water split into
hydrogen ions protons and electrons
while oxygen is released as a by-product
the electrons go through photosystem 2
and then through an electron transport
chain as electrons fall to a lower
energy level hydrogen ions are pumped
into the thylakoid space creating a
hydrogen gradient this provides the
energy for ATP synthase dephosphorylate
adp into ATP in the process known as
phosphorylation the electrons then
travel through photosystem 1 and into
another electron transport chain here
the enzyme nadp+ reductase as a hydrogen
ion and two electrons onto the electron
carrier nadp nadp+ to convert it to
NADPH alternatively the electrons may
take a cyclical path involving only
photosystem 1 where ATP is the only
substance produced here electron to
travel from the electron carrier for
oxygen to the cytochrome complex and
then continue on to the p700 chlorophyll
in photosynthesis in photosystem 1
ATP is produced via chemiosmosis there
are remarkable similarities between
light reactions and chloroplasts and
respiration in mitochondria in both ATP
is produced by creating a hydrogen
gradient which is used to run in ATP
synthase proteins that phosphorylates
adp into ATP several other electron
carriers in the electron transport
chains are also found in both processes
such as the cytochrome complex the
establishment of a hydrogen ion gradient
is also similar and chloroplasts the
pumping of hydrogen ions from the stroma
into the lumen is very similar to that
done by mitochondria which pump hydrogen
ions from the matrix of eat inner
membrane space both processes get their
energy from the electron transport chain
there are key differences however for
one mitochondria gains electrons from
the oxidation of organic molecules while
chloroplasts get theirs from oxygen also
mitochondria gain energy from a food
source while chloroplasts use direct
energy from the Sun
unlike light reactions the Calvin cycle
does not need light to function nor does
it produce energy note that while it is
sometimes referred to as the dark
reactions most of the activities of the
calvin cycle take place during the day
it is actually an anabolic process that
utilizes the ATP and nadph produced from
light reactions in order to build sugar
unlike light reactions which take place
in the thylakoids the calvin cycle takes
place in the stroma of the chloroplast
there are three stages of the calvin
cycle carbon fixation reduction and the
regeneration of carbon dioxide receptor
ribulose 5-phosphate are you BP carbon
fixation is the process by which carbon
dioxide is attached to an organic
compound in this case are you BP this is
done through the enzyme rubisco which is
the most abundant protein in the
chloroplast this form is extremely
unstable six carbon intermediate which
breaks apart into two modules
3-phosphoglycerate this is done three
times for a total of six molecules of
3-phosphoglycerate the
3-phosphoglycerate undergoes the next
step of the calvin cycle reduction the
three molecules first game phosphate
from ATP becoming 13 by phosphate
glycerin each one is then reduced using
NADPH losing the phosphate molecule in
the process and is converted into a
molecule known as g3p thus for every 3
carbon dioxide's that are fixated six
g3p sugar molecules are produced one of
these sugar molecules is released for
use the rest are recycled back into ru
vp the carbon skeletons of the g3p
re-arranged using three molecules of ATP
so that the ru BP is ready to receive
more carbon dioxide thus continuing the
cycle in total three carbon dioxide
molecules 9
TP and six nadph are consumed to produce
one g3p sugar molecule light reactions
and the Calvin cycle are both necessary
to photosynthesis the light reactions
acting as the all-important energy
source for the calvin cycle the calvin
cycle relies on light reactions for ATP
and NADPH and the plant relies on the
calvin cycle to convert carbon dioxide
into useable sugar